# Parallel-3

To run the program u need to First be able to run this files u will need to rename them main.rs(VERY IMPORTANT) I just change them to part 1 and part 2 to be able to include in one repository also u will need to have install rust using this website https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/rust this will set u up perfectly with a main.rs. You will want to obviously build it with cargo build and can try to debug it first so it can set that up. After that you will run this command to build it rustc main.rs if it isnt under a folder if it is under a folder and you follow the website i posted it would be rustc src\main.rs should work since it will be under the src folder and this command to run it cargo run or .\main.exe. BEFORE RUNNING make sure that in the cargo.toml under [dependencies] you write rand = "0.8.5" to be able to use the rand generator.

For problem 1 I made a linked list that was shared between the threads and I amde 4 threads. The first thread will order the unsorted bag of presents. the second thread appends the presents to the linked list. The third thread writes the thank you cards for each present and the last thread will unhook/delete the presents from the linked list. This way all 4 servants are working and dont stop till they are done with their respective task. Furthermore, they won't write more thank you cards then presents because they only write the amount of cards per presents. So if you have 2 presents you write 2 cards

For problem 2 I made  8 threads and inside those threads I generate a random number from the range I was given which would be the temperature. Then I record the temperature every minute but for the code not to take forever I have the millisecond sleep represent a minute so a reading by the sensor will be done every "minute" This will continue for 60 minutes which is represented by count since we want a report in an hour. That hour report will have the top 5 temperatures and 5 bottom temperatures with an included 10 minute interval max difference of the temperatures which was the requirements of the assignment. This is also correct as I have the 8 threads and dont spawn  8 more every time they sleep instead I have them in the while loop that will run until count reaches 60 and count only increases when a thread sleeps which is the minute representation so when count hits 60 minutes that's an hour.
